never before in the history of the
international criminal court have so
many countries tried to prevent arrest
warrants for people suspected of war
crimes morein two months after
prosecutor Karim Khan requested arrest
warrants for the Israeli leader his
defense minister yav Galant and three
Hamas leaders the UK Germany the US and
others are trying to stop or delay them
other countries including Norway Spain
South Africa have intervened in favor of
the case the court says won't be swayed
by political pressure so I think that
there is a record there is a history
that shows that whether people are
condemning welcoming sanctioning or not
the IC System has always fulfilled this
idea of uh protecting the judicial
process from any kind of pressures but
that was before the IC was uh
Prosecuting Israeli leaders as I said
there was sanctions against the ICC
prosecutor yet that did not prevent her
from moving ahead with what she believed
is the application of the law some
reports had suggested issuing an arrest
warrant against Netanyahu who is
visiting Washington was imminent but
arguments by Germany and the UK that the
court has no jurisdiction to prosecute
Israeli leaders will now delay this an
argument this international law expert
calls tenuous removing Israelis from
Palestinian jurisdiction would allow
Israelis to commit for example war
crimes crimes against human it with in a
way impunity because they could not be
prosecuted either by the Palestinians
nor by the international criminal court
and it would all rest with the Israeli
Judiciary he believes the arrest warrant
will be issued only a few months later
than expected in comparison the arrest
warrant against Russian President
Vladimir Putin was issued in a month not
a single country intervened a former
assistant to the ICC prosecutor says a
decision to allow 64 intervention shows
how politically sensitive the case is
although there was no legal merits on
the substance uh uh for the UK
submission the pre-trial chamber took it
seriously entertained it and is going to
delay the process of about I don't know
how many months low buy time to those
who have power the IC has long been
accused of being a Colonial Court often
only focusing on African war criminals
but with the case against nanyu
prosecutor Khan hopes to send a message
that nobody is above the law but looking
at the countries and organizations
defending the Israeli leader this
message seems to be ignored by his
traditional Beckers step fast and Al
jazer
the make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer